So, after completing the login page, we have to come to our main page.
Here are some things that I would like to show you.
When you log in, for example, I go back to login.
And when you log in here, what happens is that you are redirected to your main page.
So here I have logged in and I am redirected to my main page.
But what is happening now?
Now if someone is in slash login, for example,
why will he log in when he can directly go to the main page without directly logging in?
So here we have to put a condition on the main page as well.
That if the user is not logged in, then the user should not be shown on the main page.
And instead, the user should be redirected to the login page.
So how will that happen?
For this, what we will do is go to our VS Code.
And after going to the VS Code, this is our main page basically.
Here, first of all, what we are doing now, we will do this directly with the help of local storage.
We will detect if the user is logged in or not.
But as we will use CMS Sanity in the future, we will use Sanity for the backend.
So I will also tell you how we can do all this.
So what do we have to do first?
First, we will create a use effect here.
Okay, so you create a use effect.
And after that, after creating a use effect, here we will check the first thing.
That is, we will check the local storage.
That is, I will give you a logic.
It is a very simple logic, although it is not like this.
But we will do this now.
To learn, just to learn.
So what will happen?
That we have local storage.
Now how will we know if any user is logged in or not?
So we can do one thing.
We check with local storage that if there is a user info object in local storage,
which we created while logging in.
That means the user is logged in.
Otherwise, if the user info object is not in local storage, then the user is not logged in.
Okay, it is very simple.
That if we have put a check here using the use effect.
As soon as the page is loaded, the use effect will run.
The use effect will check the first thing.
That is, is there anything in local storage by doing user info object?
If there is,
then it will allow the user to come to the main page.
Otherwise, it will redirect the user to the login page.
Okay, so now how will this thing be checked?
It is very simple.
We can do one thing.
Here we can put a condition.
What can be that condition?
Let me tell you.
So here we do one thing.
If.
Or by not putting if, we make a variable here.
Const.
User logged in.
By doing.
Or by doing user object.
This user logged in will also work.
And user logged in.
And after this, what will we do here?
Local storage dot get.
What does local storage dot get method do?
That it fetches the object that you will put in this parameter.
The parameter that you will put in its parentheses.
It will remove them from local storage.
Here we will put user info object.
So whatever it will get here called user info object.
So it will fetch this thing.
Okay, so we saved it by doing user info object.
I think.
Let me check it once.
So here.
Our user info object.
Right.
So we can directly check this thing from here.
Okay.
And here we can check one more thing after this.
That if.
User logged in.
Dot.
Now we have to see one more thing.
That when we had saved the item in local storage.
So there we had stringified it.
You will remember.
That our object save.
User info object.
We had done it by doing local storage dot set item.
And we had stringified it.
Okay.
So it is necessary to stringify the object.
But when we want to access some value from this.
User info object.
So we will want this.
String.
We cannot extract any value from string.
Like as an object.
So we will have to convert it in the form of object.
So how will we do that?
It is very easy.
We have to convert that string back to object.
So what will we do?
Json.
Dot parse.
And you have to put this whole thing in bracket.
That's it.
So you have parsed it in the form of object.
Okay.
After this.
After this what we will do here.
Our if condition.
For this first we will put brackets here.
And we will write here.
User logged in.
Dot email.
Dot length.
User logged in.
So user logged in.
Something is going wrong here.
Okay.
So here one parenthesis is missing.
User logged in.
Dot email.
Dot.
Length.
Greater than zero.
Okay.
So here one parenthesis is missing.
User logged in.
Dot.
Email.
Length.
Greater than zero.
Okay.
So.
Then.
Okay.
I think here I have.
This thing is.
Okay.
Now it is correct.
So here.
You can see this syntax.
So it is something like this.
And here I have put a condition.
That if the user logged in.
In its login details.
In that object.
Isn't it?
The length of the email should be greater than zero.
Why did we check this?
Tomorrow if we just check this.
That there should be an object named user logged in.
So.
The local storage.
That is.
The local storage could be edited by anybody.
Yes.
This can be edited by local storage.
So I show you how to do it.
This you can see over here.
Now over here.
Now I.
Go.
To console.
And this our user.
Which is local.
Local storage.
Right now this is the local storage.
Now I right click here.
And see over here.
A option is coming by choice everything to edit.
So from here any value can be edited.
So who knows.
Here a user.
If we just enter the condition that in the user info object.
That should exist.
You could be broke.
Now what happens.
So, what if the user info object is created by the user itself?
Let's assume that no user info object exists here.
But what will the user do here?
He will create an object here.
User info object.
And make this object empty.
Make it empty.
So, our if condition is that
the user info object is already created.
So, the user is logged in.
So, we bring it to the main page.
But we don't want to do this.
I said that if the length of the email in this is 0,
then you can log in.
So, it is necessary to have an email here.
But this is also not a solid proof idea.
It is not a plan.
Why?
Because the user can put any email.
How do we know that it is not verified?
So, we will do this further.
I will tell you how to find out each and every thing.
How is the verification?
What we have to do for this is
that the email and other data
will have to be stored in a database.
Then from that database
we will have to compare it.
So, we will do that further.
But for now, let us know this.
So, let us go back.
And here,
I am putting one thing to teach you.
If user logged in dot email dot length greater than 0,
then what you have to do is
to let the user stay on this page.
If our user logged in dot email dot length greater than 0,
then we will want the user to stay on this page.
Otherwise, it will go to the login page.
So, for this,
the things that we will use to shift the page,
the things that we will use to navigate the user from one page to another page,
we will use something which we call use navigate.
So, we will import it.
So, to import it, you will write use navigate.
So, it will be imported automatically.
After this, you have to do one thing.
You have to come to one of your components
and write here const navigate equal to use navigate.
And here, you have to do this.
So, now, as soon as you call navigate,
and mention the path in it,
it will navigate you to that place when you want.
And here, one more thing.
Here, we have written local storage dot get.
Here, we will write get item.
So, get item.
Okay.
And here, we will put one more thing, one more check.
User logged in and end.
Now, we have also checked here that
an object named user logged in
and the length of the email in it is also greater than zero.
Okay.
So, we have put this check.
There is nothing.
It is just determining that the object is also existing
and the email is also existing.
Now, what will we do?
We will just navigate.
We will let the navigate remain on the main page.
So, the user will remain on the main page.
Otherwise, where will it navigate?
Else, navigate.
In login.
Right?
So, now, what is happening is that
the user is logged in and his email is also there.
Right?
So, what will we do?
We will let the user remain on this page.
On the main page.
Otherwise, we will navigate him on the login page.
And here, we pass an empty array.
Dependency array.
So, whenever the page will be reloaded,
this thing will work.
Now, once we check this thing.
Now, let's go to our browser.
And after going to the browser,
you see here,
we are in the login page.
Once, I try to go to the main page from the login page.
Now, I am not logged in.
As soon as I go to the main page,
now, actually, I am logged in.
Sorry, I didn't know.
Yes.
Now, what do we do to log out?
Let's go to the application.
See, here, in local storage,
there is a user info object.
And the email in it is greater than zero.
I am logged in.
As soon as I delete it,
the user info object is also not there.
The email in it is also not there.
Now, if I reload,
I will be redirected to the login page.
Why?
Because I am not logged in.
Now, if I try once,
to go to the main page
and hit enter,
then I will be redirected to the login page again.
So, now, do you understand what is happening?
This is the process of our code.
That if I try to go to the main page
by deleting the login,
then I will be redirected to the login page again.
Right?
So, here, I want to show you something.
I want to explain, basically.
So, that you can understand it properly.
First, we fetched the user info object
from the local storage.
Then, we put a condition in the useEffect.
As soon as the main page is loaded,
this useEffect runs.
First, it will work by fetching
from the local storage.
Then, it will fetch the item from the local storage.
And it will check that
the item which we have fetched from the local storage,
does it exist?
If it does,
then is its length greater than 0?
If it is,
then that person can come to the main page.
This means that he has logged in.
He must have logged in on Google.
Only then, all these things would have come to him.
Otherwise, he will navigate to the login page.
Okay?
It is very easy.
Right.
So, now, what do we do?
We go to the web page.
And,
let's test it properly.
So, as soon as I do continuous tagging,
the user info object is created here.
As soon as it is created,
I come to this page.